Cheesecake Recipe

Ingredients:
1. 8  whole graham crackers ((about 1 cup of crumbs))
2. 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
3. 4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) butter,  (melted)
4. optional, 1/8 teaspoon cinnamon
5. 24 ounces (3 blocks) cream cheese,  (softened)
6. 1 cup sugar
7. 3  large eggs, (room temperature)
8. 1 cup sour cream, (room temperature)
9. 1 teaspoon vanilla extract or vanilla paste
10. 12  whole graham crackers ((about 1 1/2 cups of crumbs))
11. 2 tablespoons sugar
12. 5 tablespoons butter, (melted)
13. optional, 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
14. 32 ounces (4 blocks) cream cheese, (softened)
15. 1 1/3 cup sugar
16. 4  large eggs, (room temperature)
17. 1 1/3 cup sour cream, (room temperature)
18. 1 1/2 teaspoon vanilla bean paste or extract

Instructions:
Set your cream cheese, eggs, and sour cream out on the counter for at least one hour (preferably 2 hours) before making your cheesecake filling to allow the ingredients to come to room temperature.
Position an oven rack in the middle of your oven with no racks above it.
Preheat your oven to 325 degrees F.
If your springform pan has a lip around the edge, turn it upside down and lock it into place so the base is completely flat.
Grease the inner ring with butter or baking spray if your pan is not non-stick.
Optionally, you can line the bottom of your pan with a round of parchment paper.
Crust
1. Crush your graham crackers into crumbs, either using a food processor or by placing them into a zip-top bag and smashing them with a rolling pin.
2. Stir the graham cracker crumbs together with the sugar, melted butter, and cinnamon if using, until it resembles wet sand.
3. Pour into the bottom of a springform pan.
4. Push the crumbs over the bottom and about 2 inches up the sides of the pan, then press into an even layer using a flat-bottomed glass or measuring cup.
5. Bake the graham cracker crust for 10-12 minutes until fragrant and lightly browned.
6. Remove and let the crust cool while making the filling.
Cheesecake Filling
1. Beat the cream cheese on low speed until creamy, for about 1 1/2 minutes, scraping down the bowl and beaters after about 1 minute.
2. Scrape the bowl and beaters then add the sugar beat on medium-low speed until creamy and smooth about 1 minute.
3. Scrape down the bowl again then beat just to ensure all of the lumps are removed.
4. Lightly whisk the eggs with a fork, just to break them up.
5. With the mixer running at low speed, slowly drizzle in the eggs until they are all incorporated into the cheesecake filling. This will take 45-60 seconds. (Alternately, you can mix in one whole egg at a time until blended.)
6. Add the sour cream and vanilla and mix just to combine.
7. Do not overmix or incorporate a lot of air into the filling.
8. Scrape down the bowl one last time and mix for a few seconds.
Water Bath
1. Bring a kettle of water to a boil (or boil at least 4 cups of water in a large glass measuring cup in the microwave).
2. Pour the cheesecake filling into the pan over the cooled crust.
3. Set the springform pan into the Easy Bath Silicone Wrap or tightly wrap the bottom with a few layers of heavy-duty tin foil.
4. Set the filled springform pan in the larger 12-inch round cake pan or a large roasting pan.
5. Set the pans in the oven on the middle rack.
6. Carefully pour the boiling water into the larger pan so that it goes halfway up the side of the springform pan or about 3/4 of the way up the Easy Bath Silicone Wrapper. Close the oven door.
7. Bake an 8-inch cheesecake for 45-50 or bake a 9-inch cheesecake for 50-55 minutes until the top of the cheesecake looks set but not browned.
8. Turn the oven OFF and allow the cheesecake to continue baking for 15 minutes.
9. After 15 minutes, crack open the oven door about an inch (holding it open with a wooden spoon if needed) and allow the cheesecake to cool slowly for 45 minutes.
10. Remove the cheesecake from the oven and set it on a cooling rack.
11. Run a thin knife or plastic blender spatula around the edge to release the cheesecake from the pan.
12. If you used tin foil to wrap your springform pan, remove it.
13. Allow the cheesecake to cool at room temperature for an hour.
14. Drape a paper towel over the top of the springform pan (to wick up moisture), then wrap the top of the pan with tin foil.
15. Place the cheesecake in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours.
16. Remove from the fridge and take off the tin foil and paper towel.
17. Unlatch the springform pan and remove the sides.
18. You can serve the cheesecake on the base of the springform pan or use a large cake spatula to carefully move it to a cake plate or serving platter.
19. Cut into 12 slices and serve plain or with your favorite toppings.
