Red Velvet Cupcakes
Equipment:
▢ Muffin pans
▢ Paper cupcake liners
▢ Mixing Bowls
▢ Electric hand mixer or stand mixer
▢ Piping bag and tip
Ingredients:
▢ 1⅔ cups all-purpose flour 200g
▢ 2 teaspoons cocoa powder
▢ 1 cup granulated sugar 200g
▢ 1 teaspoon baking powder
▢ ¼ teaspoon baking soda
▢ ¼ teaspoon kosher salt
▢ ¾ cup unsalted butter room temperature (170g)
▢ 3 large eggs room temperature
▢ 2 tablespoons vanilla extract
▢ ¾ cup buttermilk 180ml
▢ Red food coloring
▢ 1½ cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter room temperature (340g)
▢ 1½ pounds (6 cups) confectioners sugar sifted (720g)
▢ 16 ounces cream cheese room temperature (452g)
▢ 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
▢ 1 pinch kosher salt
Instructions
• Preheat the oven to 350°F. Place 16 cupcake papers in cupcake pans.
• In a large bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer, sift the flour, sugar, cocoa powder baking powder, and baking soda tgoether. Add the salt and give it a whisk to combine.
• Cut the room temperature butter into tablespoon-sized pieces then add to the dry ingredients. Using a paddle attachment, mix on low using until a sandy mixture forms.
• In another bowl, whisk together the eggs, buttermilk, vanilla, and food coloring. (Use 1 to 2 tablespoons of liquid food coloring, or 5 to 6 drops of gel food coloring. More will give a richer red.)
• Slowly add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients while mixing on low. Mix until combined, scraping the bowl down as needed. Distribute the batter evenly into cupcake papers.
• Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until springy to the touch. Let cool for a few minutes in the pans then remove and cool completely on a wire rack.
• In a large mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter on medium speed until smooth and fluffy, about 2 minutes.
• Add the room temperature cream cheese, vanilla, and salt to the creamed butter. Beat together on medium speed until well combined. Scrape down the bowl.
• With the mixer on low speed, add the sifted confectioners sugar a cup at a time. Mix until combined. If you’re wanting a stiffer buttercream, keep adding more sifted confectioners sugar until it’s the desired texture or chill the buttercream for a few minutes before piping.
• Transfer the buttercream to a piping bag fitted with a star tip and pipe large dollops on top of each cooled cupcake.
